Page 1163:
214Overview of the GRE ® Analytical Writing Measure
Scored Sample Essays and Reader Commentary for the 
Practice Analyze an Issue Tasks on Page 195
Task 1
Every individual in a society has a responsibility to obey just laws and to disobey and
resist unjust laws.
Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with
the claim. In developing and supporting your position, be sure to address the most compelling reasons and/or examples that could be used to challenge your position.
Essay Responses and Reader Commentary
Score 6 Response
Throughout history the conflict between one’s own judgment and the judgment ofthe lawmakers has given rise to many conflicts, wars and revolutions. In that context,the claim that individuals should follow their own sense of righteousness by opposinglaws that are in their opinion unfair and following laws that are fair is justified. Sinceindividual judgment is subjective, however, I cannot completely agree with the claim. 
One of the negative consequences of blindly following a state’s laws becomes clear
when one considers authoritarian, ideologically extreme and fundamentalist countries.It is highly likely that power-hungry and oppressive governments like Nazi Germanyand the Soviet Union are not founded on and buttressed by the most ethical laws. Forexample, when my grandfather was stationed with the German army in the CzechRepublic in 1945, he was tasked with executing five Czech partisans. As a soldier, heshould have followed orders and could have been sent to prison or executed himself ifhe disobeyed. He managed to convince his superior that his pistol was rusty and wouldnot fire and thereby saved the lives of the partisans by disobeying a direct order. Whena state’s laws are in conflict with basic human codes of ethics, therefore, it becomesclear that one should disobey orders. 
Not all laws, however, violate human rights, so the decision to follow or oppose them
is not black and white. In some cases a subjective sense of what is right might actuallyoppose a collective sense of what is right. For instance, I remember arguing with myparents while in 5th grade in school that, based on my antipathy towards school at thetime, I had a right to freedom and should not be obliged to go to school. In fact, goingto school is required by law in Germany, and I was arguing to break the law based onmy own set of principles and rights. Since a sense of righteousness can be subjective, itis sometimes reasonable to accept laws that benefit the whole of society as well as theindividual - even if the individual is not willing to accept that as a universal truth. 
I furthermore can’t completely agree with the claim with respect to the statement
that society should obey “just” laws. There are certainly circumstances in which a wholesociety’s sense of right and wrong has been manipulated by years of propaganda.Consider the law passed in 1939 by Nazi Germany labeled the “Endloesung” , i.e., thefinal solution. That law deprived Jewish people of any human rights and set the scenefor the holocaust. Through years of brainwashing, a large proportion of German society
This ebook was issued to Jamboree education, order #22327601162. Unlawful distribution of this ebook is prohibited.
Customer name Jamboree education , Order Id: 22327601162
Page 1164:
215Overview of the GRE ® Analytical Writing Measure
accepted that law and actually believed that Jews were an inferior race. Therefore,
depending on the circumstances and the manipulative powers of a regime, even lawsthat appear just to some are utterly appalling to humanity as a whole. Hence, thesubjective nature of right or wrong does not only vary from person to person but is alsosubject to manipulation and deceit. For this reason I cannot agree with the claimcompletely. 
In conclusion, therefore, there are situations, such as when laws clearly oppose
basic human rights, in which the claim is true and useful. However, an individual’sinterpretation of what is right is often subjective and vulnerable to biased influencesby powerful regimes. Therefore the truth of the claim is limited.
Reader Commentary
This response presents a cogent, well-articulated analysis of the issue in accordance with the
specific task directions. Each paragraph contributes significant analytical reasoning to sup-port the nuanced position that while resistance to authority is obviously justified in the mostclear-cut cases, a sense of justification can be too subjective to be reliable not only in a per-sonal sense but also on a societal scale, as when entire populations become deluded. In pre-senting that analysis, the writer takes a position that one must disobey unjust laws (secondparagraph) and obey those that are just (third paragraph). But, in accordance with the taskdirection to address any compelling reasons and/or examples that could be used to challengeone’s position, the writer also recognizes a counterargument to his/her position in instanceswhen people neither resist nor disobey unjust laws (fourth paragraph), particularly whenthey are “subject to manipulation and deceit. ” Furthermore, the examples and reasons areboth compelling and persuasive as in the dramatic case of the Nazi soldier finding a way todisobey orders even though he “should” have followed them to save his own life. Theresponse conveys ideas fluently and precisely via effective vocabulary and syntax, as in thisexample: “Therefore, depending on the circumstances and the manipulative powers of aregime, even laws that appear just to some are utterly appalling to humanity as a whole.Hence, the subjective nature of right or wrong does not only vary from person to person butis also subject to manipulation and deceit. ” For its well-articulated, cogent analysis of theissue, this response earns a score of 6.
Score 5 Response
Every individual in a society does have a responsibility to obey just laws and to
potentially disobey and resist unjust laws to a certain extent. Laws are formed with thesafety and well being of the society as a whole; therefore one would hope that mostlaws would be considered just. However, in extreme circumstances, disobeying a lawthat is seen as unjust, when seen as benefiting society as a whole, is acceptable. In thesesituations the “bar” for what stands as unjust needs to be set, and is nonnegotiable.Without a hard and fast line that is followed complete anarchy could ensue. 
Every person has a responsibility to do what is just, whether it is in the eyes of the
law or eyes of what is morally acceptable. To be a responsible and active member in afunctioning society an individual needs to follow protocol. Laws that are set in place tocontrol the safety of a community are crucial to the society’s survival. Responsibility,although a daunting term, is appropriate in that in order for a law to be effective andfunctional individuals need to be held accountable for their actions. Just laws are notsimply suggestions that should be followed; they are rules that need to be followed. 
This ebook was issued to Jamboree education, order #22327601162. Unlawful distribution of this ebook is prohibited.
Customer name Jamboree education , Order Id: 22327601162
Page 1165:
216Overview of the GRE ® Analytical Writing Measure
When it comes to unjust laws it is not such a black and white situation. If a law is
unjust in every single situation, and at no point is morally acceptable, then it is anindividual’s responsibility to stand up against the law and demand change. However,there is no standard definition as to what is unjust. Each individual can read into thissituation differently. For some, animal rights hold the most significance and any law thatdenies them complete rights is unjust. In that case most in society would not find itacceptable or morally right to fight laws that protect a human’s security over an animal’ssecurity. The same can be said for issues such as abortion. Some are strongly pro choicewhile others feel it is the same as committing murder. In this case some would fightagainst laws that allow abortion while others will fight to allow the women to decide. Inboth scenarios, if everyone fought against the standing laws chaos would surely ensue. 
To resist unjust laws could hold a very different meaning to each individual in
society. Some believe that the best way to resist an unjust law would be to sendletters to the capitol, quietly protest by putting up signs, or simply getting word outby holding town meetings out that these laws are not acceptable. Others takeresistance to a totally different level by vocally protesting, holding sit-ins, and in somecases becoming violent. This being said, unless is there is a hard and fast ruledescribing what is considered unjust and what “resist” means, there needs to becaution when attempting to stand up for what one individual decides is unjust. 
In the most extreme cases, such as allowing genocide of an entire race, there would
be no question that citizens need to stand up and fight the laws put in place by thecorrupt justice system. In such cases the line is drawn and it appears to be a black andwhite issue. Again, caution needs to be taken when disobeying the laws. If theresistance becomes violent, then their cause can become questionable. Are they notdoing the same thing in retaliation, therefore committing unjust crimes to fix unjustrules? Tactful and effective methods that do not put society as a whole in moredanger than they currently stand in would be acceptable. However, more often thannot violence is used to fight violence, which essentially seems to contradict the causeand undermine the end goals of the resistance. 
In the end it is critical that society follow just laws in order to keep society healthy
and happy. It is in fact their individual responsibility to do so. As for disobeying unjustlaws, there seems to be a large grey area. Depending on the means to the end,disobeying could potentially be beneficial to the entire society, yet with strongopinions leading the way there is potential for damage to be done to the entiresociety. In that case, “responsibility” is too strong of a term.
Reader Commentary
In addressing the specific task directions, this strong response presents a generally
thoughtful and well-developed analysis of the issue. The writer does not merely acceptthe claim as stated but instead addresses it as two distinct assertions, which results in afully reasoned response. While agreeing that “every individual in a society does have aresponsibility to obey just laws, ” the writer takes a more pragmatic approach when eval-uating the validity of the counterclaim that every individual in society also has a respon-sibility to disobey unjust laws. For example, in paragraph two, the writer presents a viewfavoring the obligation to obey laws and then, in the third paragraph, clearly signals aturn to challenging that view: “When it comes to unjust laws it is not such a black andwhite situation. ” To illustrate this point, the writer examines several reasons why it is dif-ficult to make such a broad claim about unjust laws, including the differing views amongindividuals as to what constitutes an unjust law and what actions should be taken “to
This ebook was issued to Jamboree education, order #22327601162. Unlawful distribution of this ebook is prohibited.
Customer name Jamboree education , Order Id: 22327601162
Page 1166:
217Overview of the GRE ® Analytical Writing Measure
resist” such laws. The writer warns that engaging in resistance to unjust laws could jus-
tify extreme methods of retaliation which would undermine the goal of resisting (e.g.,using violence to fight against violence). Examples are well chosen and reasoning is log-ically sound. Ideas are connected appropriately (e.g., “In these situations, ” “However, ” “Inthat case, ” “ Again, ” “In the end”), and the response is well organized. However, it lacksthe superior facility of a typical 6, and that keeps it from receiving the higher score. Forits well-considered, thoughtful analysis and logically sound reasoning, this responseearns a score of 5.
Score 4 Response
I disagree with the claim that individuals in a society have a responsibility to obey just
laws and to disobey and resist unjust laws. I believe individuals are responsible toobey laws, whether they seem just or unjust. Promoting the idea that members of asociety ought to disobey and resist any law with which they disagree is dangerous.We should encourage society members to use proper channels to challenge the lawswhich they believe are unjust. 
Our society is based on democratic law. As such, our current laws represent the
values and needs of our society as a whole. If an individual of our society disagreeswith a particular law, we could all be in danger if that individuals belief conflicts withthe greater good of our society. For example, if John believes he should be able to usemethamphetamines, and therefore chooses to produce them in his home despite thecurrent ban on methamphetmines in our country, this could put many otherindividuals in danger. Methamphetamine production creates many toxic byproducts,and faulty production can result in dangerous explosions, both of which put hisneighbors in harms way. John may be justified in his choice to endanger himself byusing methampehtamines, but he is not justified to endanger his neighbors. 
Some might argue that obeying unjust laws only serves to reinforce those laws,
but I disagree. Many laws in our country and been changed or modified over theyears. An important example is abortion. Abortion was previously illeagal in ourcountry. In resistance to the unjust laws, many women obtained illegal abortions.These abortions were not safe and were often performed under unsanitaryconditions. Through out legal system, we have now ensured that women have thelegal right to abortion. Seeking action through appropriate channels did not reinforceprohibition of abortion, but led to it’s legalization. By following the proper legalchannels, and obtaining legalized abortion, woman now have access to abortions atsafe and sanitary medical facilties, and the unjust laws were changed. 
As responsible citzens, we have the right to obey laws. The responsible response to
unjust laws is to change them.
Reader Commentary
In addressing the specific task directions, this response presents both a position on the
issue and a potential challenge to it. Disagreeing with the idea of resisting or disobeyinglaws, the writer argues that all laws should be obeyed or challenged through “proper legalchannels. ” Using a democratic society to provide context and through the example of Johnthe methamphetamine producer, the writer illustrates the potential danger in advocatingdisobedience to laws which one personally deems to be unjust. Next, the writer satisfacto-rily responds to a potential counterargument: “Some might argue that obeying unjust lawsonly serves to reinforce those laws, but I disagree. ” By comparing the consequences of 
This ebook was issued to Jamboree education, order #22327601162. Unlawful distribution of this ebook is prohibited.
Customer name Jamboree education , Order Id: 22327601162
Page 1167:
218Overview of the GRE ® Analytical Writing Measure
disobedience to abortion laws (unsafe operations performed under unsanitary conditions)
to the results obtained when legal channels we re pursued (legal abortions in sanitary med-
ical facilities), the writer successfully addres ses the counterargument while reinforcing sup-
port for his/her own position. Although it is adequately organized and ideas are supportedwith relevant examples, the response lacks the breadth and depth required for a score of 5or 6. For instance, while the example of John illustrates the point that there is a potentialdanger to society when individuals disobey laws which they deem unjust, it does notdemonstrate any thoughtful consideration of the more complex aspects of the issue. Thesame is true of the abortion example which cites changes in the law but does not engage thethornier and more contentious aspects of that issue. Ideas are conveyed with acceptableclarity although there are some errors. For its competent analysis of the issue conveyedwith acceptable clarity, this response merits a score of 4.
Score 3 Response
The purpose of stating the laws is to maintain law and order in the society. Without
the laws there will not be any control on the behaviour of the individuals in thesociety. Laws are made for the welfare of society itself so it is the responsibility of eachand every individual to obey the stated laws. 
Obeying the laws is beneficial for the society, but then the question arises that what
is the difference between just and unjust laws? It depends on the thinking of individualto individual. The law which is just for one individual may be unjust for anotherindividual. For example in a country like India there is a law which gives reservation forbackward class people in most of the fields like education, employment etc. This law issupported by those who are benifited by this law but the people who dont getreservation are resisting such laws. Or a theif does a robbery, when roberry is a crimeaccording to law which is just law for normal people but may be unjust for the theif. Sowhether a law is just or unjust depends on individual perspective. 
Take for example on the roads traffic signals every individual has to follow the
signals or else there will be a lots of confusions, and also may result in to accidents. Ifeach individual follows the laws there will be no confusions and the traffic movementwill be smooth, thus every one in the traffic gets benifitted. 
So it is the responsibility of each individual to obey the laws stated whether it may
seem just or unjust to him. Even though the laws seems unjust the resistance can beshown in some different ways, but the laws must be obeyed. The best example of thisis the recent movement in India about the Jan Lok pal bill which will soon become alaw. Thus the laws can also be changed or modified by the contribution of individualsbut the its necessary that the laws are obeyed. 
Even though one can voice his opinion about the unjust laws the resistance also
has to be done as per the law. The laws cannot be classified as just or unjust as per anindividual opinion. Thus to conclude the laws are made for the welfare of the societyas a whole and not only for an individual so it is the responsibility of each and everyindividual to obey the prescribed laws whwther he likes it or not.
Reader Commentary
This response demonstrates limited competence in addressing the task directions and
analyzing the issue. The writer disagrees with the prompt (“it is the responsibility of eachindividual to obey the laws stated whether it may seem just or unjust to him”) and 
This ebook was issued to Jamboree education, order #22327601162. Unlawful distribution of this ebook is prohibited.
Customer name Jamboree education , Order Id: 22327601162
Page 1168:
219Overview of the GRE ® Analytical Writing Measure
supports this view by explaining why the claim is untenable (“the laws cannot be classi-
fied as just or unjust as per an individual opinion”). In accordance with the task direc-tions, the writer also addresses implied objections to the prompt. The fourth paragraph,for example, centers on explaining that although the writer objects to disobeying the law,this is not necessarily an objection to all forms of resistance (“Even though the lawsseems unjust the resistance can be shown in some different ways, but the laws must beobeyed”). Despite these strengths, the response is obviously flawed. An accumulation offrequent minor and occasional major errors interferes with clarity: “For example in acountry like India there is a law which gives reservation for backward class people inmost of the fields like education, employment etc. This law is supported by those whoare benifited by this law but the people who dont get reservation are resisting such laws. ”Therefore, primarily because it has problems in language and syntax that result in a lackof clarity, this response merits a score of 3.
Score 2 Response
At first glance it would seem easy to agree with this statement. Obeying laws that are
just and resisting laws that are unjust helped build our nation. Our founding fathersresisted laws imposed by England such as taxation without representation. Rosa Parkssat in the front of the bus at a time when blacks were prohibited from doing so. Wecan now look back and see that these acts were heroic and beneficial to our countrywhich at first sway me to agree with this statement. However, after further analyzingwhat the full meaning of this steament is I would have to disagree. 
My disagreement arises from two words, just and unjust, and creates more
questions than answers. How does one determine which laws are just and which areunjust? Each individual in society has their own opinion about what is considered justand unjust, fair or unfair. Would it be wise for someone to radomly decided not tofollow a law because they felt it was unjust? I think not.
Reader Commentary
While the language is relatively clear, with only occasional errors, this response exem-
plifies seriously flawed analytical writing primarily due to its lack of development and itis not fully addressing the specific task directions. In the first paragraph, the writerbriefly considers the merit of the prompt’s claim, offering a few unexplored examples ofoccasions in history when resistance to unjust laws was “heroic and beneficial to ourcountry. ” The writer then abandons that line of reasoning and takes a different position,that the prompt creates “more questions than answers. ” Although questions raised by thewriter have the potential to be developed into thoughtful analysis of the issue’s complex-ity, they are left unexamined. Therefore, because it is seriously limited in presenting anddeveloping a position on the issue, the response merits a score of 2.
Score 1 Response
Generally speaking, every individual in a society has a responsibility to obey just laws
and to disobey and resist unjust laws, it is important that obey the laws and it must bereceive the agreement all of us. 
Firstly, the squence of the list like number, look like beautiful and vivid, at the same
time, the behavior of human being in the society will be influence the other people, if
This ebook was issued to Jamboree education, order #22327601162. Unlawful distribution of this ebook is prohibited.
Customer name Jamboree education , Order Id: 22327601162
Page 1169:
220Overview of the GRE ® Analytical Writing Measure
the attitude of recongizing the subjects is correct will added the confidence each
other. For example the individual tax, if exceed the amount of salary the countryproved, must be a feedback in the revenue in the finance government. 
Secondly, we are surfing the web all day and all nitht, so the internet is ever so
import ant to every person. The famous websit 
www.taobao.com , it involved0 the
honest issue recently, the CEO Ma Yun insist on the law, announce the whole issue inthe websit on public, receive the good goals in the mind of all over the world. On thecontrary, if a person disobey and resist unjust laws,for example the drugs in goodfamous singer and good anthelte, will be give the children bad message, must be getto bad influence in the future in the children, include the mother and father, thebrother and sister, etc. 
Last but not the least, as human being not another animals in the world. Must be
keep the good mind in the brains, resist the happence of unjust laws, don’t like theStock Indexes bounce around like yo-yo game on Friday, day after yesterday lost 4 percent in the value. Do the correct things in the end.
In sum, I firmly consider, receive the normal message, good message will influence
more people, fininsed the harmony society, God wished. Friendly speaking, everyindividual in a society has a responsibility to obey just laws and to disobey and resistunjust laws.
Reader Commentary
The length of this response does not offset its fundamental deficiencies in analytical
writing. In the opening paragraph, the writer repeats the prompt and appears to agreewith the prompt’s claim. From that point on, however, severe and pervasive problems inlanguage and sentence structure interfere with meaning so persistently that it is impos-sible to recognize any potentially relevant analysis, as is shown in the following: “Thefamous websit www.taobao.com , it involved0 the honest issue recently, the CEO Ma
Yun insist on the law, announce the whole issue in the websit on public, receive the goodgoals in the mind of all over the world. ” Following the introduction, transitions appearat the start of each paragraph, but the content of those paragraphs is largely incoherent.Due to the severe and pervasive problems in language and sentence structure and inspite of phrases from the prompt being sprinkled throughout the response, there is littleor no evidence that the writer understood the issue and the task. For all of these reasons,the response must receive a score of 1.
This ebook was issued to Jamboree education, order #22327601162. Unlawful distribution of this ebook is prohibited.
Customer name Jamboree education , Order Id: 22327601162
Page 1170:
221Overview of the GRE ® Analytical Writing Measure
Task 2
Claim: The best test of an argument is its ability to convince someone with an opposing
viewpoint.
Reason:  Only by being forced to defend an idea against the doubts and contrasting
views of others does one really discover the value of that idea.
Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with
the claim and the reason on which that claim is based.
Essay Responses and Reader Commentary 
Score 6 Response
The claim that the best test of an argument is its ability to convince someone with anopposing viewpoint is a compelling one. The reason given for this claim is that onlythrough defending an idea against all possible criticism does the idea gain true andtested merit. Indeed, it is this very reason which forms the basis of academic scholarship:by debating and discussing opposing ideas in a collective discourse, we are able tohome in upon those ideas which are truly of value. The concept that an argumentshould be based on sound principles that convince even those who are biased against itfalls in line with the foundation of our post-Enlightenment society of reason. 
Consider, for example, two disparate political parties with vastly different approaches
to governing a country. If, in this tense political climate, a representative from one partyraises an argument which she can defend openly in front of a group of her opponents,the value of the idea becomes clear. Say, perhaps, that a representative proposes a newstrategy for increasing employment which falls much more in line with her own party’sphilosophy than with the other party’s. By arguing with representatives from theopposing party, and by addressing each and every counterpoint that they raise to hernew employment policy, the potential flaws in her idea are laid utterly bare. Furthermore,the logic and reason of her points must be measured in the balance against the biasesand emotions of her listeners. If after such a conversation she is able to convince theopposing party that her proposal holds some merit and might actually be beneficial forthe citizens of their country, then its value becomes far more evident than if she were adictator who had merely administered her vision unchecked. It is apparent from thisexample that the ideology of convincing others with opposing viewpoints is pervasive inthe way many governments and institutions are structured, such as our own —through
checks and balances, public discourse, and productive disagreement. 
The strongest reason for the excerpt’s validity is found by comparing the claim to
its reverse. Imagine a scenario where one is asked to present one’s argument, but thegroup of people to whom one is presenting already espouse those very ideas:“preaching to the choir” is the ubiquitous idiom we use to describe this phenomenon.In this situation, it becomes irrelevant whether or not a particular argument holdsthose indicators of merit: logic and reason grounded in evidence. Even the mostinflammatory or tenuous arguments would not be exposed for their true hollownessby a group who were unwilling or unable to question the speaker. The “choir” presentsno challenge to the argument, and in doing so the argument’s merit cannot be tested.In fact, it is this lack of challenge which can lead to stagnation both in the governing
This ebook was issued to Jamboree education, order #22327601162. Unlawful distribution of this ebook is prohibited.
Customer name Jamboree education , Order Id: 22327601162
Page 1171:
222Overview of the GRE ® Analytical Writing Measure
of nations —consider, as mentioned above, dictators who eliminate the possibility of
dissent —and in academic discourse, where complacency with prevailing ideas can
halt the creation of new and possibly contradictory findings. For this, we see thatbeing forced to defend an idea against the doubt of others does indeed bring out itstrue worth; in the opposing situation, whether or not the argument holds intrinsicmerit, this merit cannot be tested or discerned in any way. 
There is, however, one modification which makes the claim more complete. The
claim suggests that the best test for an argument is its ability to convince others,which may lead to the inference that an argument which cannot convince othersholds no value. However, this inference is not true, and here lies the caveat to theclaim. Throughout history there are ideas or arguments that are perhaps too modern,beyond their times, and in these situations those who oppose them refuse to believean argument that is later on discovered to be entirely true and valid. Imagine, forexample, Galileo’s attempts to convince his contemporaries that the Earth revolvedaround the Sun, and not vice versa. In the scientific climate of his time, others simplycouldn’t accept Galileo’s reasoned argument despite his multiple attempts toconvince them. In this instance, the value of Galileo’s argument actually could not betested by defending it in front of others. The value only became apparent later on,when other scientists began to repeat and understand the insightful calculations thatGalileo had made much earlier. So while convincing the opposition is certainly onemark of a good argument, it is not always the ultimate test. 
In conclusion, the examples discussed reveal that the worth of an argument can be
measured through its ability to withstand dissent and doubt. As long as an argumentis not deemed invalid by the mere fact that no others are persuaded by it, it isreasonable to claim that the best way to test an argument is to attempt to convincethose who oppose it.
Reader Commentary
In addressing the specific task directions, this outstanding response presents a cogent
examination of the issue and conveys meaning skillfully. After stating a clear position inagreement with both the claim and its reason, the writer emphasizes the significance ofthe latter: “It is this very reason which forms the basis of academic scholarship: by debat-ing and discussing opposing ideas in a collective discourse, we are able to home in uponthose ideas which are truly of value. ” Skillfully, the writer demonstrates the validity of theclaim by comparing arguments presented to different audiences. First, a political repre-sentative defends a proposal against the arguments of the opposing party. Here, the pro-posal is fully tested “through checks and balances, public discourse, and productivedisagreement. ” In contrast, the writer considers a similar presentation of ideas to a like-minded group (“preaching to the choir”) and concludes that, in the absence of discourseor dissent, the merit of an idea cannot be determined. Finally, the writer reexamines theclaim and finds an exception to it (the rejection by his contemporaries of Galileo’s rea-soned argument), and modifies the claim as follows: “So while convincing the oppositionis certainly one mark of a good argument, it is not always the ultimate test. ” Examples andreasons are both compelling and persuasive, and language and syntax are consistently pre-cise and effective, as in the following: “In fact, it is this lack of challenge which can lead tostagnation both in the governing of nations—consider, as mentioned above, dictators whoeliminate the possibility of dissent—and in academic discourse, where complacency withprevailing ideas can halt the creation of new and possibly contradictory findings. ” Becauseof its superior facility, fluent and precise presentation of ideas, and clear and insightfulposition, this response clearly earns a score of 6.
This ebook was issued to Jamboree education, order #22327601162. Unlawful distribution of this ebook is prohibited.
Customer name Jamboree education , Order Id: 22327601162
Page 1172:
223Overview of the GRE ® Analytical Writing Measure
Score 5 Response
As an undergraduate college student, I have come to understand that many of my
peers are very emotionally attached to their opinions and political viewpoints. While agut reaction may tell you that what you believe is correct, that initial instinct is notsufficient in backing up an opinion or idea. In a court of law, or in a debate, one mustuse rational reasoning and clear, specific examples when arguing a side. Oftentimes,one does not realize how well (or, conversely, how little) one knows a subject untilthose ideas are challenged. It is through debate, and through the process of beingchallenged by an opposing viewpoint, that one really begins to understand why theybelieve what they believe, and how intellectually sound those reasons are. 
Many times, over the course of my education, I have come into contact with those
whose viewpoints differ from my own. I consider myself to be a person with an openmind, and I enjoy debate with others who value different sides of an argument than Ido. In those conversations with others, it is easy to tell who is educated on a topic, andwho has had a gut, emotional reaction to the issue being discussed. Those who knowabout the topic use specific examples to explain why they feel the way they do. Thosewho don’t sometimes resort to more emotional persuasive methods, and sometimesthe discussion can become heated. 
It is through discussions such as these that I have been able to shape my own
opinions and viewpoints on current social issues. I appreciate being challenged by mypeers or someone who is “playing devil’s advocate” because, through that process, Iam able to really examine the motives behind my beliefs. Sometimes, I haveencountered discussions that have led me to realize that I simply do not knowenough about a topic to hold a valid discussion about it. Other times, I have realizedthat I am well-versed on the subject, and my opinion or viewpoint is logically sound. 
While I agree that this process of challenge is valuable in the formation and upholding
of personal viewpoints and opinions, I do not believe that a person should enter into aconversation with the specific purpose of persuading others to change their opinions.Opinions are highly personal, and each person has a reason to believe what they do. It isvaluable to question beliefs and opinions, but it is not constructive to feel that youropinion is best and others need to believe what you believe or be considered wrong. Ithink that there must exist a balance between questioning the beliefs of others and beingable to understand why other people believe what they believe. It is more important tobe able to understand another person’s perspective on a subject than it is to change theirmind. In other words, you may disagree with someone, but it is important to be able tosee why they believe what they believe. This promotes a well-roundedness that isimportant in intellectual discussion, and, indeed, in many areas of life. 
Though the best test of an argument is challenge (and the subsequent ability to meet
the challenge of defense or question the validity of the original opinion), I do notnecessarily believe that the challenge must involve convincing someone with an opposingviewpoint that you are correct. You may challenge the idea of others —and be challenged —
without feeling as though you must change the minds of others. While discussion of thistype may result in changing someone’s mind, I don’t believe that that should be the goal.The goal of such a discussion should be to share thoughts and ideas, to uphold your ownideas, and to challenge ideas that may be based on emotion or instinct. In this way, we maygrow intellectually in an amiable way without stunting the growth of those around us.
This ebook was issued to Jamboree education, order #22327601162. Unlawful distribution of this ebook is prohibited.
Customer name Jamboree education , Order Id: 22327601162
Page 1173:
Reader Commentary
This response presents a generally thoughtful, well-developed analysis of the issue in
addressing the specific task directions. The writer introduces the response’s position by firstaddressing the reason given in the prompt, rather than the claim itself. Through generallythoughtful analysis of personal experiences, the writer agrees that challenges to one’s beliefsby those with contrasting views play a vital role in shaping and testing the validity of one’sconvictions. Turning next to the claim, the writer rejects the assertion that the ability to con-vince someone with an opposing viewpoint is the best test of an argument. Instead, thewriter argues that more is gained by understanding the views of others than by convincingthem of the superiority of one’s own position. Although a minor digression follows in thediscussion of the importance of respecting the opinions of others, this does not detract significantly from the logical flow of analysis; it does, however, suggest that the response isgenerally thoughtful rather than cogent and compelling. The concluding paragraph demon-strates the writer’s ability to formulate a cohesive position on all aspects of the issue. Also,ideas are presented clearly with appropriate vocabulary and sentence variety, as in thisexample: “I appreciate being challenged by my peers or someone who is ‘playing devil’sadvocate’ because, through that process, I am able to really examine the motives behind mybeliefs. ” Overall the response demonstrates facility with the conventions of standard writtenEnglish. For all the reasons above, the response earns a score of 5.
Score 4 Response
Whether valuing one’s own ideas requires challenging them against the views of
others is a contested position. This is problematic when we seek to choose the properaction, especially when it comes to religious beliefs and political ideals. It seemsthough that convincing those who have an alternative perspective on a specific topicwill ultimately be what allows us to recognize the value of our own stance. 
Some argue that the values of our ideas are realized without being discussed with
those holding a different point of view. The proponents of this position claim that aslong as we are convinced of our views, then there will be no need to challenge themby considering the ideas of others. For example, let us consider religious beliefs. Onemay argue that it will be unnecessary to establish any exchange of ideas betweendifferent religions, as such exchange will have no effect at all. Religious arguments arepresented in the first place to be upheld by faith and not reason. Accordingly, suchideas should not be contested and contrasted with others, as that will only lead toreligious tension. Religious tension in the first place is the outcome of dominantreligious groups trying to force their views on others who hold different beliefs. 
Nevertheless, it seems it is still necessary to challenge our positions against the critical
arguments especially of those who have an opposing view. The main force of thisargument stems from the claim made by John Stuart Mill of the fallibility of our ideas. Thisview has also been advocated by a number of contemporary philosophers, especiallyJurgen Habermas. The recognition that our arguments are fallible will urge us tocontinuously consider alternatives while contesting our beliefs against those of others. Inthe case of international terrorism for instance, we do believe that considering the viewof others is required. The destruction of the twin towers in New York possibly would nothave occurred if there had been any dialogue between the two contesting parties. Thenotion of utilizing terrorism for arriving at particular political goals would be subjected tothorough criticism. Consequently, those who appeal to terrorism as a legitimate mean toarriving at ends will in the least recognize the fallibility of their position beforehand. This
224Overview of the GRE ® Analytical Writing Measure
This ebook was issued to Jamboree education, order #22327601162. Unlawful distribution of this ebook is prohibited.
Customer name Jamboree education , Order Id: 22327601162
Page 1174:
225Overview of the GRE ® Analytical Writing Measure
however can only be done through contesting it against those who hold a different view
and not against those who are already convinced of the legitimacy of terrorism. 
Ultimately, it seems that challenging our views against contrasting perspectives
does appear to be the best way to test the soundness of an idea. This stems primarilyfor our recognition of the fallibility of our ideas. Therefore, we should always considerany argument we hold to be contestable. This will prompt us to discuss our ideasagainst people who hold opposing views first and foremost in order to see whetherour beliefs are right or not.
Reader Commentary
In addressing the specific task directions, this response presents a competent analysis
of the issue and conveys meaning with acceptable clarity. It begins with the writeragreeing with the claim: “convincing those who have an alternative perspective on aspecific topic will ultimately be what allows us to recognize the value of our ownstance. ” Before developing this position, however, the writer considers the views ofothers who assert that the value of a belief can only be determined by one who holdsthe same belief and acknowledges that circumstances exist when efforts to convinceothers of one’s views can be futile, as in exchanges between those who hold faith-basedbeliefs. According to the writer, such efforts should be avoided as they have a greaterpotential to create religious strife than to ascertain the soundness of ideas. The writerthen reaffirms agreeing with the claim and reason and suggests that they stem fromand align with the views of Mill and Habermas: “The recognition that our argumentsare fallible will urge us to continuously consider alternatives while contesting ourbeliefs against those of others. ” However, to rise to the level of a 5 or 6, the response
must go beyond merely mentioning two philosophers to discuss in some depth theintersection of their theories with the writer’s own position. Such philosophical under-pinnings of the response offer rich possibilities for exploration and development butthey are left unexamined, and the writer even declines to elaborate on his or her ownviews. Instead, the writer offers an example, also unexplored, of the destruction of theTwin Towers on 9/11 and argues that the attack might not have occurred had the 
terrorists allowed their views to be challenged and the fallibility of their beliefs exposed.While this does not demonstrate thoughtful probing or insightful consideration of theissue especially because it seems to contradict what the writer has said earlier aboutchallenging one’s religious views, it does provide a relevant example to support thewriter’s position. Thus, the analysis remains only competent. In spite of some errors, the response generally demonstrates control of the conventions of standard written Eng-lish. And as the following example shows, ideas are expressed with acceptable clarity: “Consequently, those who appeal to terrorism as a legitimate mean to arriving atends will in the least recognize the fallibility of their position beforehand. ” For its competent analysis, relevant examples and reasons, and its sufficient control of lan-guage, the response earns a score of 4.
Score 3 Response
Everyone is entitled to their own opinion, and this can often lead to debates between
parties with opposing views. Though some would describe debate as combative, itcan be much more. Debate is essential to the development of well formed ideasbecause it forces the participants to more deeply analyze not only their viewpoint but
This ebook was issued to Jamboree education, order #22327601162. Unlawful distribution of this ebook is prohibited.
Customer name Jamboree education , Order Id: 22327601162
Page 1175:
226Overview of the GRE ® Analytical Writing Measure
also the opposing viewpoint. By defending you stance on an issue or idea you are
naturally deepening your own understanding of it through deeper analysis andreflection. 
When debating an issue the opposing sides puts up criticisims to cast doubt on
ones stance. Naturally that person must not only discredit said criticisms but alsoattempt to weaken the opposing sides argument. This process naturally forces you toanalyze the issue from both sides, both trying to anticipate and deflect the attacksfrom the opposition. A deeper understanding and apprectiation of ones ideas comesas a result of this reflection. 
Another natural by product of debate is discovering the value and truth of said
idea to you. Most often people choose to defend positions that they agree with andbelieve in. For example, some people would not defend a pro-choice stance becauseit is not something that personally believe in. When defending a stance it is oftentimes critical to believe in at least part of what you are fighting for. 
Many differing opinions exist in the world and the beauty is we can learn and
enrich ourselves almost all of them. Defending your ideas against opposing viewsenables you to deepen your understanding of your ideas and those of others. Alongwith this deepened understanding comes a greater appreciation of your own ideasand values. This is truly the height of debate and discussion.
Reader Commentary
Demonstrating some competence in understanding the issue and addressing the task
directions, this response presents a clear position best illustrated in its conclusion:“Defending your ideas against opposing views enables you to deepen your understand-ing of your ideas and those of others. Along with this deepened understanding comes agreater appreciation of your own ideas and values. This is truly the height of debate anddiscussion. ” The writer argues that debate can lead to a deeper understanding of issuesas both sides of an argument are analyzed in order for a person to be able to defend ideasfrom criticism, weaken an opponent’s position, and discover the value and truth of per-sonal beliefs. While this is a valid line of reasoning, it is developed only superficially asthe writer relies on unsupported assertions. The only example appears in the third para-graph, the “pro-choice stance, ” but it is left unexplored and undeveloped. Much of theresponse consists of slight modifications of the same idea, that of deepening under-standing. Notice the repetition of words and phrases in the first, second, and fourthparagraphs: “deepening your own understanding, ” “deeper understanding and apprecti-ation, ” “with this deepened understanding comes a greater appreciation. ” While theresponse exhibits some flaws in grammar, usage, and syntax, meaning is generally clear.Overall, the response earns a score of 3 primarily because of limited development and itsreliance on unsupported claims.
Score 2 Response
I agree with the statement, “The best test of an arguement is its ability to convince
someone with an opposing viewpoint. ” Often in school one has to debate an issueand is assigned a side to represent. I am no exception. One can find reseach tosupport almost any argument. The challenge is how well one can compose theirthoughts and present them. If one can persuade another with an opposing viewpoint,whom in reality shares your same viewpoint, therein lies a victory. 
This ebook was issued to Jamboree education, order #22327601162. Unlawful distribution of this ebook is prohibited.
Customer name Jamboree education , Order Id: 22327601162
Page 1176:
227Overview of the GRE ® Analytical Writing Measure
I feel that the reasoning statement does support the claim. One must have proof in
order to back an arguement. If one is conducting reseach for a debate, they may neverhave discovered some of the opposing thoughts. This provides the opportunity to makean informed decision when taking a side.
Reader Commentary
This brief response demonstrates serious weaknesses in analytical writing. Although the
writer attempts to address the task and indicates clear agreement with both the claim andreason, the response is seriously limited in developing a position on the issue. The veryfew logical reasons or examples provided to substantiate its position are undeveloped. Inaddition, there are problems in language and sentence structure that seriously interferewith or even obscure meaning as in these examples: “If one can persuade another with anopposing viewpoint, whom in reality shares your same viewpoint, therein lies a victory”;and, “If one is conducting reseach for a debate, they may never have discovered some ofthe opposing thoughts. ” For seriously limited development, few relevant reasons or exam-ples in support of its claims, and serious problems in language that frequently interferewith meaning, the response clearly earns a score of 2.
Score 1 Response
I agree with the claime, I feel that any topic should have an an opposing viewpoint.
Without having an opposing viewpoint, an individual does not get to trulyunderstand two sides of any particular topic. (Value of that idea) It is only a fair factthat two different viewpoints are being presented, so that you have enpughinformation to defend your beliefs.
Reader Commentary
Extreme lack of development of ideas in this response renders it fundamentally defi-
cient. The response sketches an understandable position but provides little evidence thatthe writer can develop an organized response. For that reason and because it isextremely brief, the response merits a score of 1.
This ebook was issued to Jamboree education, order #22327601162. Unlawful distribution of this ebook is prohibited.
Customer name Jamboree education , Order Id: 22327601162

